- websites

- datacentre shutdown
email about details shutdown, use it to remind significant things to various teams

web
mostly taken care by Steve & C.
possible disaster recovery plans - mail AndyB 03-04/08
possible weekly slot with Steve to get updates?

15/08 
users/tools DB should be ready in one week/before shutdown at most (Harpreet to be probed in time)
web servers on suicidal blades should be ok, can use old/new HW (how?) and recreate services easily(?)
AWS-EBI VPN (for accounts) working 
mirror websites have a dependency on our FTP site so we need to have a strategy for making that data that available to them during the Sanger datacenter outage

13/07 The fall back position, of having master-slave databases at EBI rather than Galera, would suffice. For either of these we'd need connections to/from it for WTSI webservers, WTSI LSF, AWS webservers, and Embassy. 
AWS: could be done with VPN
Embassy: could be done with internal network connections(?)
Sanger web/archive servers/LSF: shadowland (dedicated private) link (what's the difference with internal network?)
07/07 The dedicated institute network 10G line for us is going well. How can we use this to transfer data rather than going via Globus?

Shadowland: 
Steve T: could use Shadowland for two distinct purposes (i) to connect Sanger LSF with EBI databases for the data production teams, and (ii) to allow Sanger webservers and web LSF to connect to EBI/HH databases to cope with the August downtime. 
John B:  proposal was that machines in the Sanger LSF cluster would be able to access databases inside EBI (inside the Hinxton EBI network to be precise). There was no other purpose for the "shadowlands" link. What has been implemented can do just that. Machines in our 10.7.0.0/16 network can (subject to firewall rules) access machines in Sanger's 172.17.0.0/16 net.

- cvs archive
need to figure out archive is here

- RT migration
aim to migrate within the first two weeks of Sep
Best practical asked to start developing plans for the migration

07/07 Expected RT date is still early August. We are purchasing the consultancy
